The next notebook which
will demonstrate another,
let's say technique in
natural language processing.
That's what NLP stands for.
And by the way,
if you wanna play with a demo,
[LAUGH] this one is pretty interesting.
It basically recognize toxicity,
meaning that is there an insult or
sexual explicit.
I don't wanna type anything here but
you can play with it on your own and
see it's actually pretty fun.
[LAUGH] And the source code is available
on GitHub as well under tfjs models.
All right, so get back to
different word representations.
So the main problem or
I guess problem with text is that
we need to somehow convert those letters
and words into numerical representation,
which then can be used by
the narrow network for training.
And one of the ways to actually
create the embeddings, remember,
I was talking about dimensionality
reductions but I was doing it with images.
And when we're saying that for
handwritten digits,
we can probably reduce the dimensionality
to only I know 11 degrees of freedom and
still it will preserve the most
important information.
With the words,
you can kinda do the similar thing.
So you can just specify that you have
a particular degrees of freedom,
and each word will be just a point
in this multidimensional space.
And the idea is that our neural
network somehow might even
figure out where to put kinda
words with a similar meaning.
If they are synonyms, they probably
gonna be really close to each other.
And then relationship, remember I said for
instance, almost this kinda
Euclidean distance between boy and
man can be similar to woman and girl.
So embedding,
what embedding is this technique,
it's basically just by analyzing text,
we'll try to assign
a particular coordinates to all
the words it will meet in
this multidimensional space.
And the thing is it's
part of the keras itself.
So in layers, you can use embedding and
specify how many, well, how many
dimensions you want to have, right?
And I think that's the how many
words we will be providing.
But let me quickly just run this code.
And we can use the imdb data set
once again to train our model.
So the text in this case, we actually
have slightly different data set, right?
There is words, this underscore
basically means that that's the space so
we are looking at the end of the word.
But it can be part of the words.
Yeah, I don't have the, br for instance,
it doesn't really have the under words.
It's just part of some other words.
All right,
without going too deep into the details,
we can say that I want 16
dimensions in my embedding and
my keras will be Sequential, right?
So the first layer will be this Embedding
so kinda space which will transform
the vocabulary into these 16
dimensional representation.
Then what I want to do,
I want just to kinda average,
find the average among
all of those channels.
And finally, just with one
Dense layer with the sigmoid,
it will tell me if it's positive or
negative review.
So the idea here I'm actually just
training this embedding layer, right,
to somehow grasp the representation
of different words.
So let's see how long it will
take me to train, one minute.
So okay, I can probably just
run this code and wait for it.
So you can see that loss function for
my training actually was decreasing for
the training data set and
once again kinda starts
fluctuating quite a bit even
after probably seven epochs.
So once again,
it's indicator of somewhat overfeeding.
So if we look at the accuracy,
it's not decreasing that drastically.
So I can look like it's still
fluctuating quite a bit.
So I guess I can even stop
after probably fourth
epoch to have more kinda stable solution,
generalized solution.
All right, is it done?
Six, we about half through the training
Let's just wait for it to finish.
It should take another 20 seconds.
>> Is this sort of training
probably the same that Amazon uses?
For example, on their ratings,
it's like when it says this is the most
critical review or
this is the most positive review?
>> They use slightly different algorithm.
So this dataset particularly is just
taking the reviews provided and
just saying if it's positive or negative.
You're probably talking about
recommender system, right,
recommendation system or-
>> Just on each product that says here's
all the reviews but here's the top most
critical and here's the most positive one.
>> Yeah, but I felt they don't use
machine learning algorithm for that.
I think there's a system of weighted
voting, the comments up and down, right?
And I think it's actually not
using machine learning there.
It's just simply showing you
the most voted up positive review or
something like that.
But technically yes, you can apply
deep learning to recognize
the positivity of the comment.
But the thing is this system,
the one we're considering right now,
they are somewhat pretty simple.
And yeah,
I just want to demonstrate this quickly.
So on Google, there is a thing
called Embedding Projector.
What I did right now,
I just grabbed our embedding layer, right,
our embedding layer was layer number 0.
And I simply saved the vector, so
those kinda 16 dimensional data and
also the words into those two files,
vecs.tsv.
And I can use Embedding Projector
to visualize all of that.
So right now, it's Word2Vec data set.
And I can load my own.
So for instance, on the first one,
it should be vectors.
So I need to go to Documents, practical,
and file's vec, should be uploaded and
also [INAUDIBLE] the data from here,
the one we just graded.
All right, and that's it,
right, Click outside to dismiss.
Perfect, so
we just loaded our own data set.
But it's not, so we had 16 dimensions.
It kinda reduced to
the most important ones,
only three dimensions because we cannot
visualize 16 dimensions on my screen.
But the most interesting part if we
just put the words explicitly, so for
instance, what is interesting here?
I definitely can see that great,
beautiful,
wonderful on these parts, right?
And the opposite side there is unhappy,
poorly, terrible.
So somehow our system
already can separate and
assign negative values to those
words positive to those, right?
And then basically it will influence
how we're doing the prediction.
If you kinda turn this around,
maybe we can find some odd there,
interesting dependencies,
well, grades, perfect.
I don't see anything.
Excellent, yeah,
it seems it basically tried to find
the most important words which
helped us to distinguish
if we're looking at the positive or
negative feedback.
But the thing is I found some
very interesting dependencies.
For instance, DVD and VHS, [LAUGH] were
on different sides of the spectrum.
I couldn't explain why it was
happening like that, but it was.
So somehow ,yeah, probably words,
DVDs were in more
positive feedbacks and
VHS negatives, I don't know.
But that's one of the way to
kinda to try to understand what
the embedding is actually doing, right?
And so it allows you embedding.
When you're training like this,
it will might even learn some
dependencies between the words.
For instance,
you can type kinda well, word well,
and see what's the words with the kinda
similar meaning or similar condition.
I actually like Euclidean.
Well, unique, well, job,
I'm not sure how to interpret this.
Let's find something else like good.
Convention, Powell-
>> Why are there some words with
underscores after them?
>> So
it's the way how the dataset was prepared.
So interested with underscore
means that we are looking
at the word interested but split,
it's only part of the word.
So for instance, where it's splitful
will be represented by this word.
Is there a word splitful?
Maybe not but you've got the idea
is basically means that it
was only part of the work as well as nte.
It's not that a word but it was part of
the word and sometimes they're doing it.
They're just building parts of the word.
Because they're trying to find maybe just
some combination were part of the word
still gonna preserve some meaning
about the whole maybe even sentence.
So it's just the tricks that you're
doing with text to once again,
kinda convert this just written
form into digital representation.
And the embedding is just the additional
obstruction on whatever bag of words you
created by kinda cutting and
chopping parts of them.